#util/random/eval 
- Tail ("alpha") probabilities `ɑ=P(X>x)=1-P(X≤x)` (see [ks_alpha](#random/kolmogorov_smirnov/cdf)) can be used as an estimate for _false rejection rate_ under convergence. This estimate has a slight positive bias for _small_ (`N<<1000`) _samples_, but overall bias is expected to be negative whenever a small-alpha stopping rule is employed. 
- Such a tail lower-bound `P(X>x)≥ɑ` can justify failure to reject or _non-rejection_ (of convergence) due to false rejection risk ≥ɑ being too high. Equivalently, we fail to reject when false rejection risk is ≥1 in 1/ɑ. Since ɑ~0 at start, log plot of inverse frequency 1/ɑ is often more informative.
  - If target could be resampled at each step from the stationary distribution, then each run would mix into ɑ～Uniform[0,1] (+ small bias). Corresponding inverse frequency 1/ɑ would mix into 1/ɑ～InverseUniform[0,1 (- small bias) on (0,∞). Over many runs, the medians would converge to non-random values ɑ≈0.5 (+ small bias) and 1/ɑ≈2 (- small bias) respectively.
  - If target is sampled once and then fixed across steps/runs, then the _stationary distribution itself becomes random_, and we can study quantiles of its _random quantiles_. Simulating samples of size 100 from Uniform, we find that _random median_ ɑ has quartiles {0.47,0.58,0.7} and 95% interval {0.15,0.81} and median 1/ɑ has quartiles {1.4,1.7,2.1} and 95% interval {1.2,6.5}. Looking at the _random 5th (or 95th) percentiles_, ɑ has quartiles {0.054,0.11,0.15} and interval {0.0063,0.28}, while 1/ɑ has quartiles {6.5,9.,18.} and interval {3.56,159}. 
  - Note that these quantiles (of quantiles) assume that the fixed target sample is drawn from the stationary distribution. Otherwise, and more realistically due to imperfect mixing in general, we expect "somewhat heavier tails" of smaller ɑ and larger 1/ɑ larger, depending on the quality of the target sample. Convergence can then be non-monotonic depending on whether target sample happens to be "along the way" from prior to posterior.
- The target sample can be computed (_inferred_) internally (via [infer](#random/properties/cached) method) or set (_assumed_) externally. The target sampling distribution can then be interpreted as a posterior or likelihood under a given (potentially augmented) model/data. 
- Targets can be set (_assumed_) on descendants (outputs), which can be much easier and more reliable than targets on parents (parameters), especially when larger samples are available (or can be generated) on descendants, e.g. based on fixed parameters used to generate synthetic data sets evaluation purposes.